# Private Key Deconstruction and Reconstruction

An RSA private key (as created with, for example, OpenSSL) contains a
lot of redundant information.  The purpose of this code is to extract
the (almost) minimal information needed, and, in turn rebuild the key
from this information.  Of course in production applications one would
do one or the other but not both; the idea being that backing up or
sharing - or hiding - only a prime would be easier than the whole key.

## Requirements

In addition to its functional requirements - that it does as described -
this code has some slightly unusual requirements on the
implementation.

- Must be a standalone script
  - Easy to copy around without tarring up dependencies
  - No compilation required
  - Can work on low spec'ed machines
- Must not rely on non-standard modules
  - Designed to work on offline machines with a close to default OS
- Must be as portable as possible
  - Can run on older systems (and future systems)
  - Can run on a minimally installed system

Note that the private key must be **unencrypted**.

## Implementation

Not many languages have native BigInts.  Python and Common Lisp do,
but the latter needs compilation for the target system (or a runtime
environment).

This code is written in Python.  Unlike Common Lisp, Python is highly
version dependent, with functions appearing and disappearing.  This
code was written with 3.5, but should in theory work with 3.2 or
later.

## How to Use

Currently this is a proof of concept, but the code contains all, or
nearly all, of its full intended functionality.  The code reads a
private key from a file called privkey.pem, and extracts the public
key and a prime from it.  It then reconstructs the full private key,
and writes it to a new file, called privkey.tmp.

    openssl genrsa -out privkey.pem 2048
    ./privkey.py
    diff -qs privkey.pem privkey.tmp

The filenames are hardcoded here but it's just for the PoC.

# Acknowledgments

This code was written to support tasks in GridPP, the UK Grid for
particle physics (www.gridpp.ac.uk) and EOSC Hub (www.eosc-hub.eu);
the latter being funded by Horizon2020 under grant agreement 777536.

It used GNU Emacs 24.5 on Debian Stretch with Python 3.5.3.

The work presented here builds on work presented at the CAOPS working
group meeting of the Open Grid Forum 23 in Barcelona, June 2008.
